# Atomic Power Bank

This article is related to
Spaced Out
content.
This article is related to
The Bionic Booster Pack
content.
Atomic Power Bank
A self-charging Power bank made at the
Molecular Forge
with
Enriched Uranium
.
It can power buildings via
Large Dischargers
or
Compact Dischargers
.
Its low wattage and high Radioactivity make it unsuitable for Bionic Duplicants.
Research
Radiation Refinement
Type
Power Bank
Effects
Charge: 120 kJ
Self-Charging: 60 W
Lifetime: 150 cycles
Decor
-5 (Radius: 1 tile)
Cost
10 kg
Enriched Uranium
Mechanic
This power bank auto-charges itself at a rate of 60 W during 150 cycles, effectively generating 5.4 MJ of energy in total, in addition to its initial 120 kJ of charge. It will no longer charge itself when it is full.
When an Atomic Power Bank is active in a
Compact Discharger
or a
Large Discharger
, it emits 120 rads/cycle, gradually fading in a radius of 4 tiles.
Bionic Duplicants
will not pick up Atomic Power Banks to charge themselves even if no other Power Banks is available. Despite that, 4 Atomic Power Banks can generate sufficient power to charge
Eco Power Banks
via
Compact Dischargers
or
Large Dischargers
, and
Power Bank Chargers
, for one Bionic Duplicant.
When the lifetime of 150 cycles ends, the Atomic Power Bank will be destroyed, producing
10 kg
of
2726.85 °C
/
4940.33 °F
Nuclear Waste
with
5,000,000
germs of
Radioactive Contaminant
When used in a
Flydo
, it will generate enough power to keep the Flydo running, but when the lifetime ends, the Flydo will also be destroyed, dropping no
Plastic
or
Plastium
.
Craft
Atomic Power Bank can be crafted at a
Molecular Forge
using 10 kg of
Enriched Uranium
.
Trivia
The total amount of energy generated by an Atomic Power Bank is similar to the amount of energy
Steam Turbines
can potentially generate when a
Research Reactor
with full coolant intake runs for one cycle, which consumes 10 kg of
Enriched Uranium
, the same cost as an Atomic Power Bank.
See also
Molecular Forge
Power Bank
