# Bog Bucket

This article is related to
Spaced Out
content.
Bog Bucket
Bog Buckets produce juicy, sweet Bog Jellies for Food.
Location
Swampy Biome
Seed
Bog Bucket Seed
Base Seed Chance
10%
Produces
1
Bog Jelly
Growth Speed
6.6/26.4
Cycles
Spawn Temperature
19.85 °C
/
67.73 °F
Temperature
10 °C ↔ 30 °C
/
50 °F ↔ 86 °F
Lethal Temperature Threshold
Below
-55 °C
/
-67 °F
or above
125 °C
/
257 °F
Atmospheric Pressure
0.15 kg ↔ 10 kg
Radiation Range
0 rads/cycle (Completely Safe) ↔ 4,600 rads/cycle (Maximum Hazard)
Survives In
Oxygen
Polluted Oxygen
Carbon Dioxide
Illumination
Requires Darkness
Irrigation
Polluted Water
40 kg/cycle
Plant Height
2 Tiles
Decor
-10 (Radius: 2 Tiles)
Can be Planted in:
Code
Internal Id
SwampHarvestPlant
String Id
STRINGS.CREATURES.SPECIES.SWAMPHARVESTPLANT.NAME
Bog Buckets
are a
Food Plant
which can be found in the
Swampy Biome
. It can be grown by planting a
Bog Bucket Seed
and produces
Bog Jelly
.
Seed
Bog Bucket Seed
can be obtained by harvesting and uprooting
Bog Bucket
, or by digging up a
Buried Object
within the
Swampy Biome
. It grows into Bog Bucket when planted.
Food
It produces 1840 kcals
Bog Jelly
per harvest every 6.6 cycles, which can be eaten raw (
Terrible Food Quality
) or be further cooked into
Swampy Delights
with no extra resource requirement.
Swampy Delights provides 2240 kcals and requires 1840 kcals of Bog Jelly.
Uncooked, to feed one
Duplicant
you need 3.6 Bog Buckets, For a crew of 8 Dupes, that's 29 Bog Buckets, requiring 1160 kg
Polluted Water
per cycle.
Cooked, to feed one Duplicant you need 2.95 Bog Buckets. For a crew of 8 Dupes, that's 24 Bog Buckets, requiring 960 kg
Polluted Water
per cycle.
Notes
Bog Buckets are the only food plant which consumes
Polluted Water
and can be grown in a
Planter Box
instead of an
Hydroponic Farm
. This allows them to serve as a convenient early-game sink for the bottled polluted water generated by
Wash Basins
and
Algae Terraria
.
Database
Bog Bucket
Edible Plant
Bog Buckets get their name from their bucket-like flowers and their propensity to grow in swampy, bog-like environments.
The flower secretes a thick, sweet liquid which collects at the bottom of the bucket and can be gathered for consumption.
Though not inherently dangerous, the interior of the Bog Bucket flower is so warm and inviting that it has tempted individuals to climb inside for a nap, only to awake trapped in its sticky sap.
History
EX1-440845
: Introduced.
