# Materials Study Terminal

This article may be
outdated
. It was last updated for
EX1-466203
. These versions were tagged as updating the game mechanics discussed here:
U36-481350
•
U37-483944
This article is related to
Spaced Out
content.
Materials Study Terminal
Conducts
Applied Sciences Research
to unlock new technologies.
Comes with a few ions thrown in, free of charge.
Research
Materials Science Research
Dimensions
5×3 tiles
Category
Stations
Type
Science Buildings
Power
-120 W
Heat
+
4.5 kDTU/s
Overheat
at
75 °C
/
167 °F
Decor
0
Requires
10
Radbolts
per research point
Duplicant with Applied Sciences Research
skill
Duplicant
operation
Storage Capacity
100
Radbolts
Effects
Produces
Applied Sciences Research
points
Other Properties
Susceptible to
flooding
Materials
Refined Metal
400 kg
Conducts
Applied Sciences Research
to unlock new technologies.
Assigned
Duplicant
must possess the
Atomic Research skill
.
Mechanics
The Materials Study Terminal uses
Radbolts
generated by the
Radbolt Generator
to conduct research.
The machine can receive and store 100 Radbolts. The radbolts are received on the very left, second to bottom tile (the green circle).
If the Terminal cannot store all the Radbolts that it receives (exceeding the 100 Radbolt Storage limit) the excess Radbolts are fired in the same direction that the Terminal has received the Radbolt. This allows to construct multiple Terminals in succession to prevent waste or use excessive Radbolts for other purposes. Care must be taken as forwarded Radbolts can injure a Duplicant who is currently working at the Terminal.
10 stored Radbolts are converted into 1 Applied Science Research point.
The rate of generation of the points appears to use the same rates as the other research stations.
Tips
As a
Science Building
, the Materials Study Terminal receives a +10% efficiency bonus when placed inside a
Laboratory
.
History
EX1-466411
: Rebranded the Atomic Collider as the Materials Study Terminal.
EX1-455425
: Introduced (as
Atomic Collider
).
The Atomic Collider
See Also
Research Station
Super Computer
Orbital Microlab
v
·
d
Buildings
Base
Oxygen
Power
Food
Plumbing
Ventilation
Refinement
Medicine
Furniture
Stations
Utilities
Automation
Shipping
Rocketry
Radiation
Artifact Analysis Station
Atmo Suit Checkpoint
Atmo Suit Dock
Blastshot Maker
Botanical Analyzer
Clothing Refashionator
Crafting Station
Data Miner
Exosuit Forge
Farm Station
Geotuner
Grooming Station
Jet Suit Checkpoint
Jet Suit Dock
Lead Suit Checkpoint
Lead Suit Dock
Materials Study Terminal
Milking Station
Orbital Data Collection Lab
Oxygen Mask Checkpoint
Oxygen Mask Dock
Power Control Station
Remote Controller
Remote Worker Dock
Research Station
Shearing Station
Skill Scrubber
Soldering Station
Super Computer
Telescope
Textile Loom
Virtual Planetarium
Virtual Planetarium
see all buildings
