# Petroleum Generator

Petroleum Generator
Converts
Petroleum
,
Ethanol
, or
Biodiesel
into electrical
Power
.
Produces
Carbon Dioxide
and
Polluted Water
.
Petroleum generators have a high energy output but produce a great deal of waste.
Research
Fossil Fuels
Dimensions
3×4 tiles
Category
Power
Power
+
2 kW
Heat
+
20 kDTU/s
Overheat
at
75 °C
/
167 °F
Decor
-15 (Radius: 3 tiles)
Piping
Input: Combustible Liquid Intake
Requires
Petroleum
/
Ethanol
/
Biodiesel
: 2 kg/s
Storage Capacity
Petroleum
/
Ethanol
/
Biodiesel
: 20 kg
Effects
Carbon Dioxide
: +500 g/s @
110 °C
/
230 °F
+
Polluted Water
: +750 g/s @
40 °C
/
104 °F
+
Auto In
Green
: Enable
Red
: Disable
Other Properties
Susceptible to
flooding
Materials
Metal Ore
800 kg
Petroleum Generator
uses
Petroleum
,
Ethanol
, or
Biodiesel
to produce electricity, and emits
Polluted Water
and
Carbon Dioxide
in the vicinity.
Polluted water and carbon dioxide are output with a minimum temperature of
40 °C
/
104 °F
and
110 °C
/
230 °F
respectively.  The temperature may be higher if the building temperature is above the outputs' minimum temperature. Polluted water is emitted from the bottom-right tile of the generator (
Cell of interest
).
Efficiency
Water-fuel
Since sustainable crude oil production requires
water
, water can be considered the base fuel for Petroleum Generator, which in turn begs for a comparison with Hydrogen Generator. However, the comparison does not turn into Hydrogen Generators' favor.
The details can be found at
Hydrogen Generator#Water-fuel
Petroleum
Oil Refinery
The
Oil Refinery
can be used to produce Petrol from
Crude Oil
, this causes you to lose 50% of your Oil but each Refinery is able to provide enough Petrol for 2.5 Generators. The Oil Refinery also has a byproduct of
Natural Gas
which is enough to power an additional
Natural Gas Generator
.
An
Oil Well
produces 3.33kg/s at a rate of 1kg/s of
Water
, meaning you would need 3 Oil Wells to fully supply an Oil Refinery. This also creates enough byproduct Natural Gas to fuel another Natural Gas Generator
Alternatively, a single Oil Well produces enough Crude Oil for 83% uptime on your Petrol Generator. Assuming we use the Natural Gas in a Generator as well, this process is 12.75% Water Negative or 76.5kg per Cycle.
Slickster Ranching
Slickster
consume 20kg/cycle of
Carbon Dioxide
to produce 10kg/cycle of
Crude Oil
.
If used with the previous methods, you would need 240 Tamed Slicksters to maintain a single Generator. A single Generator only provides enough Carbon Dioxide to maintain upto 15 Slicksters
Molten Slickster
are able of generate
Petroleum
directly making them more efficient, however you still need 120 to maintain a Generator.
Any Fuel generated by Slicksters is essentially water positive as well as they clean the large amount of Co2 emitted by the Generator.
Due these reasons Slicksters better considered as a supporting piece.
Sour Gas Boiler
This is easily the most advanced method of electricity generation, it involves vaporizing
Petroleum
into
Sour Gas
, condensing the Sour Gas into
Methane
, then vaporizing the Methane into
Natural Gas
to use the Petrol in a
Natural Gas Generator
.
Natural Gas Generator
NGG
, Petrol Usage Matched (x15)
Petrol Generator
Power (W)
800
12000
2000
Polluted Water
67.5
1012.5
750
Carbon Dioxide
22.5
337.5
500
Sulfur (g/s)
43.33
650
0
Mass Deleted (g/s)
0
0
750
Heat (kDTU/s)
10
150
20
Fuel consumption is scaled to account for the loss of mass from Sour Gas to Methane transition, thus the Natural Gas Generator uses (90 / 0.67 = ~134.33).
Heat does not take into account temperatures and rates of outputted products.
When compared to a Natural Gas Generator scaled up for equivalent input, the Natural Gas Generator produces 6x more power, while producing more Polluted Water compared to Carbon Dioxide. However this is an end game setup compared to simply running a Petrol Generator.
Note, it's practical to use Power Control Stations to boost a single Petrol Generator to 3000w, compared to potentially boosting 15 Natural Gas Generators. However, considering this only reduces the gap from 6x to 4x, you likely do not need to boost the 15 Natural Gas Generators.
Ethanol
Comparison with
Wood Burner
, which uses the same fuel source, and has similar by-products:
Wood
Burner
WB
, Input
matched
(x3.33)
Petrol Generator +
4 Ethanol Distillers
Power (W)
300
1000
1040
Carbon Dioxide (g/s)
170
566.67
1166.67
Polluted Water (g/s)
0
0
750
Polluted Dirt
(g/s)
0
0
1333.3
Mass Deleted (g/s)
1030
3433.3
750
Heat (kDTU/s)
9
30
38
4
Ethanol Distillers
needed to run 1 PG are included.
The fuel-efficiency is comparable, although Petroleum Generator generates more useful by-products.
The Polluted Water can be used to regrow Arbor Trees.
The Polluted Dirt has a number of uses, including generating Oxygen or producing Coal via Sage Hatches.
A single Petrol Generator is easier to Power Control Station boost than 3~4 Wood Burners, for a significant +1000w Power Generated.
However, 4 Ethanol Distillers per Generator takes up a lot more space than a few simple Wood Burners.
Arbor Tree
1 domestic
Arbor Tree
produces 333.3 kg of
Wood
per cycle
333.3 kg of wood feeds .55 of an
Ethanol Distiller
producing 166.67 kg of
Ethanol
166.67 kg of ethanol feeds 0.1389 of a Petroleum Generator producing 62.5 kg of
Polluted Water
62.5 kg of polluted water feeds 0.892 of an Arbor tree
This loop is water-negative. It can be made water positive with
Slickster
,
Puft
, or
Oakshell
Slickster
333.3 kg of wood feeds .55 of an
Ethanol Distiller
producing 166.67 kg of
Ethanol
and 55.56 kg of
Carbon Dioxide
166.67 kg of ethanol feeds 0.1389 of a Petroleum Generator producing 62.5 kg of
Polluted Water
and 41.67 kg of carbon dioxide
97.2 kg of carbon dioxide feeds 4.861
Slickster
producing 48.61 kg of
Crude Oil
48.61 kg of Crude Oil can be turned into 24.3056 kg of
Petroleum
with an
Oil Refinery
24.3056 kg of petroleum can feed 0.02 of a Petroleum Generator producing 9.1 kg of
Polluted Water
The loop including
Slickster
outputs 71.6 kg of polluted water while requiring 70 kg as input. This is a 2% increase in water supply. Using
Molten Slickster
can increase water production even further, netting 10.7 kg of excess water, a 15% increase.
Puft
333.3 kg of wood feeds .55 of an
Ethanol Distiller
producing 166.67 kg of
Ethanol
and 111.1 kg of
Polluted Dirt
101.1 kg of Polluted Dirt (after 10 kg is used to feed tree) feeds 0.169
Sublimation Station
producing 66.73 kg of
Polluted Oxygen
66.73 kg of Polluted Oxygen feeds 1.34
Puft
producing 63.40 kg of
Slime
63.40 kg of Slime feeds 0.176
Algae Distiller
producing 42.26 kg of
Polluted Water
The loop including
Puft
outputs 104.76 kg of polluted water while requiring 70 kg as input. This is a 50% increase in water supply.
Using both
Slickster
and
Puft
at the same time is possible. Combined the loop can produce 122.96 kg of polluted water with 70 kg of polluted water as input.
Oakshell
1 Arbor tree and 1
Oakshell
produce 508.3 kg of wood per cycle
508.3 kg of wood feeds .85 of an
Ethanol Distiller
producing 254.17 kg of
Ethanol
and 169.44 kg of
Polluted Dirt
70 kg of Polluted Dirt goes to feed the OakShell, and 10 kg of Polluted dirt is turned into Dirt using a
Compost
254.17 kg of Ethanol feeds .21 of a Petroleum Generator producing 95.31 kg of
Polluted Water
10 kg of Dirt from the Compost and 70 kg of Polluted Water feed the Arbor Tree
The loop using only 1
Oakshell
outputs 95.31 kg of Polluted Water and 169.44 kg of Polluted Dirt while requiring 70 kg Polluted Water and 80 kg Polluted Dirt as input. This is an increase in water supply, while producing excess Polluted Dirt, Carbon Dioxide, Sand, and Power. If all Polluted Dirt is used to feed Oakshells, you can sustain over 8. The wood from 8 Oakshells and 1 Arbor tree will produce a surplus of 255 kg of Polluted Water, 505.5 kg of CO2, and 140 kg of Sand per cycle.
Ratios
:
1 Petrol Generator requires 7.2 domesticated
Arbor Trees
to run constantly
Or 28.8 wild ones.
6 domesticated trees with 6 wild trees creates a balanced symmetry that is water positive without Slicksters or Pufts.
1 Petrol Generator produces 450 Polluted Water kg/cycle, which is enough to feed ~6.42 domesticated trees, the 7.2 trees requires 504kg/cycle
Each Wild Arbor tree essentially produces 15.6 kg/cycle of polluted water, ~3.5 Wild Arbor trees will cancel out the water loss.
4 Ethanol Distillers provide 800 kg of dirt per cycle, enough to feed 80 domesticated Arbor Trees.
It will keep 13.3
Compost
piles occupied.
Note that if the Carbon Dioxide output from the distillers and generator are fed to
Molten Slicksters
, and the resulting Petroleum used to run a separate generator (fuels cannot be mixed in the same generator), only 3 distillers and 5.4 domesticated trees are needed to run the two generators a total of 100% of the time (75% of the time the ethanol generator can run, 25% of the time the petroleum generator can run). This reduces the Polluted Water input required, resulting in a net
excess
of 72 kg/cycle Polluted Water. This setup requires 30 happy (groomed) Molten Slicksters (4 stables), or 120 glum ones (no stables needed).
Flox and Drecko
.72 of a domestic
Balm Lily
can feed 1
Drecko
while consuming no resources. The drecko will produce 10 kg of
Phosphorite
per cycle
10 kg of phosphorite can feed 2
Pikeapple Bush
2 pikeapple bushes can feed 3.33
Flox
3.33 Flox produce 200 kg of
Wood
200 kg of wood runes .33 of an
Ethanol Distiller
producing 100 kg of ethanol
100 kg of ethanol runs 8.3% of a petroleum generator
This cycle is power and resource-positive. Generating 52 MJ of energy per cycle (86 W) per drecko. This is also positive in
Meat
,
Reed Fiber
,
Dirt
,
Polluted Dirt
,
Carbon Dioxide
,
Polluted Water
For 100% uptime you would require 12x the previous amounts. 12 Dreckos, 24 Pikeapple Bush, 40 Flox, 4 Ethanol Distillers.
Flox and Bammoth
30 kg of ethanol and 5 kg of
Fertilizer
(dupe farming 10+) can feed 2 domestic
Plume Squash Plant
2 domestic,
Farmer's Touch
Plume Squash plants can feed 1
Bammoth
, which produces 8 kg of
Phosphorite
per cycle
1.7 kg of Phosphorite is used in a
Fertilizer Synthesizer
while 6.3 kg Phosphorite and 3.1 kg Fertilizer can grow 1.24
Pikeapple Bush
1.24 domestic, Farmer's Touch Pikeapple bushes can feed 4.16
Flox
4.16 Floxes produce 249.6 kg of
Wood
249.6 kg wood is distilled into 124.8 kg ethanol in .42 of an
Ethanol Distiller
Ethanol is used to grow Plume Squash and run 8% of a Petroleum Generator
This cycle is power and resource-positive. It also produces
Meat
,
Clay
,
Reed Fiber
,
Dirt
,
Polluted Dirt
,
Carbon Dioxide
,
Polluted Water
, and small amounts of
Natural Gas
.
For 100% uptime you would require 12.5x the previous amounts. 25 Plume Squash Plants, 15.5 Pikeapple Bush, 52 Flox, 12.5 Bammoths, 5.25 Ethanol Distillers.
Compared to the previous, this setup requires a lot more Dupe Labor as we are applying Farmer's Touch to 40 plants.
Spigot Seal
Each Spigot Seal produces 40 kg/cycle of Ethanol, meaning we need 30 Seals to maintain a Generator.
To support 30 Seals, we would need 15 Domestic
Bonbon Tree
or 60 Wild Ones. Alternatively 92.5
Sweetle
.
To maintain 15 Domestic Trees we would need 1500kg of
Ice
/cycle which is 3x more water comparatively than
Arbor Tree
needs to maintain a Generator.
You also do not get the useful byproducts of Distillation, the 800kg of
Polluted Dirt
/cycle
Oakshells
Oakshell
molt
their shell to produce 100 kg/cycle of
Wood
.
Their eggs can also produce another effective 80 kg/cycle of
Wood
. (This number does not match the theoretical value, but it is correct.)
This means you need to ranch 24 Oakshells to maintain a Generator.
or 13.3 if you also consider the Wood from the Eggs.
Feeding 24 Oakshells requires 1680 kg/cycle of
Polluted Dirt
or
Slime
, or 888 kg/cycle as processing their shells at the Ethanol Distiller creates Polluted Dirt.
While if we consider the 180 kg/cycle total wood from including their eggs, only 141 kg/cycle of Polluted Dirt is needed to supplement their diet.
That's 430 kg/cycle of Wood from other sources, equal to 1.3 Domestic
Arbor Trees
.
Oakshell Ranching is completely water positive, effectively creating upto 450 kg/cycle. However as said before its Polluted Dirt or Slime negative.
If we account for the 1.3 Domestic Arbor Trees to create Polluted Dirt, That's still 360kg/cycle water positive.
Even better it even creates
Sand
for you to use in your
Water Sieve
to clean the
Polluted Water
created from the Generator.
Biodiesel
Spigot Seal
Each
Spigot Seal
drops 50kg of
Tallow
when 'put down'. Thus you will need to 'put down' a Spigot Seal every 25 seconds to maintain an Petroleum Generator at 100% uptime. That's 24 per cycle.
Note that using Spigot Seals for Ethanol will be in the Ethanol Section
Phyto Oil
Emulsifier
can create Biodiesel, you will need 960kg of
Phyto Oil
and 240kg of
Bleach Stone
per cycle to maintain a Generator.
The Phyto Oil can be made with either Seakomb Farming or Puft Ranching
With
Seakomb
farming, 24
Seakomb
plants as well as 375kg of
Water
per cycle using a
Plant Pulverizer
, which requires 240kg of
Polluted Dirt
With
Puft
Ranching, 960kg of Phyto Oil requires 1380kg of
Slime
using a
Plant Pulverizer
, which requires 29
Puft
to make, which requires 1450kg of
Polluted Oxygen
.
Which is 3.66
Sublimation Station
running at full uptime. Which is 3660 Kg of
Polluted Dirt
per Cycle.
Luckily, the Phyto Oil production produces about 410 Kg of
Dirt
, to slightly offset the costs.
The Bleach Stone can be made with either Squeaky Puft Ranching, using a Hopper, or Dartle Ranching.
With Puft Ranching, the
Bleach Stone
would require 8.5
Squeaky Puft
, which would require essentially 4
Chlorine
Geyser
With a
Bleach Stone Hopper
could make it using 720 Kg of
Salt
and 12 Kg of
Gold
per Cycle
With
Dartle
Ranching, you would need 24 Dartles or 13 Dartles with 4
Squeaky Puft
24 Dartles require 48
Dew Dripper
, which requires 480kg of
Brine Ice
while 13 Dartles require 260kg.
Note that with the new
Seakomb
and
Dartle
setup will likely require 635kg of 'Water' per cycle. A Petrol Generator generally generates 450kg per cycle, meaning this process is technically 'Water' negative by 185kg. But a
Rhex
or two can be used to recuperate the negative 'water'.
Heat
Economy
The output/input ratios of specific heat capacity for petroleum and ethanol are 1.01 and 0.72 respectively. However, as the output temperature depends on the building temperature, it is possible to use input fuel hotter than
40 °C
/
104 °F
while still outputting
40 °C
/
104 °F
polluted water, assuming the engine has cooling capacity for its own temperature not to exceed
40 °C
/
104 °F
. Conversely, it is possible for the petroleum generator to add heat to the world if you low-temperature fuel is fed into a hot petroleum engine.
For the process to be heat-negative, the petroleum input must be at least
56 °C
/
132.8 °F
, assuming that the building temperature remains at
40 °C
/
104 °F
. Whereas when burning ethanol, the ethanol input must be at least
-44 °C
/
-47.2 °F
for heat-negative operation. This is calculated by comparing the enthalpies of the input and output materials i.e. the total thermal energy of the input and output. This is given by the following equation, where
m
is mass,
c
is specific heat capacity, and
T
is the absolute temperature:
h
=
m
×
c
×
T
The temperature must be in kelvin to match the game's units of
m
in kilograms and
c
in joules per kilogram per kelvin.
Assuming that the engine outputs the materials at its minimum temperature, the total enthalpy output is:
H
output
=
H
pwater
+
H
CO2
=
4
.
1
7
×
0
.
7
5
×
3
1
3
+
0
.
8
4
6
×
0
.
5
×
3
8
3
=
1
1
4
0
kDTU
For the machine to be heat negative, the enthalpy of the system input must be less than the sum of the outputs' enthapy and machine heat generation. Hence the minimum input temperature is given by:
H
input
≤
H
output
+
2
0
m
c
T
min
≤
1
1
6
0
T
min
≤
1
1
6
0
m
input
c
input
Carbon Dioxide recycling
Slicksters
convert
Carbon Dioxide
to either
Crude Oil
or
Petroleum
, depending on the variety, at a rate of 2:1.
If you use the Slickster then the 500 g/s of CO
2
will be converted into 250 g/s of crude oil. Using an
Oil Refinery
will consume 5 kg/s of crude Oil, and produce 2.5 kg/s of petroleum and 90 g/s of
Natural Gas
. This means that for every second that you run the Petroleum Generator you will get enough by-products to produce another 40 W from the Natural Gas Generator and 125 W from the Petroleum Generator for a total of 165 W, a 8.25% return.
If you use the
Molten Slickster
then the carbon dioxide will be converted 2:1 into petroleum that can be fed right back into the generator. Every second 500 g of CO
2
becomes 250 g of petroleum that can produce 250 W of power. This is a 12.5% return without the 480 W of power consumption by the Oil Refinery and the hassle of having dupes operate it.
Without Slicksters, you will need a 1.66 Carbon Skimmers to remove the Carbon Dioxide from a Generator. With the Ethanol Route, as each Distiller also makes Carbon Dioxide, the number rises to 3.88 Skimmers.
Boiling mass deletion bug
If the generator's temperature increases past
122.35 °C
/
252.23 °F
, the output
Polluted Water
will immediately flash to
Steam
. Due to
how the mechanics handle
mixtures of different gases in motion, and especially gas sources such as the upper left tile of a petroleum generator, this results in a significant amount of steam packets being deleted.
Thus, if water output is important (such as in a closed-loop petroleum boiler), it is necessary to keep petroleum generators cooled to below
120 °C
/
248 °F
and to pump out
Polluted Water
for boiling or sieving elsewhere.
Tips
If you wish to cut out the waste management and their power cost, a
Steel
Petroleum Generator running at over
122.5 °C
/
252.5 °F
built atop mesh tiles in the void will dump the polluted water to the tiles below before vaporizing to steam, which will prevent the steam from carrying heat away from the generator. The polluted water will also leave behind clean dirt in small amounts when vaporized.
History
LU-356355
: Petroleum Generator no longer requires Plastic to build.
CS-442154
: Fix Petroleum Generators from getting stuck if they're supplied with mixed fuels, now they seamlessly change over.
v
·
d
Buildings
Base
Oxygen
Power
Food
Plumbing
Ventilation
Refinement
Medicine
Furniture
Stations
Utilities
Automation
Shipping
Rocketry
Radiation
Battery
Coal Generator
Compact Discharger
Conductive Wire
Conductive Wire Bridge
Dev Generator
Heavi-Watt Conductive Joint Plate
Heavi-Watt Conductive Wire
Heavi-Watt Joint Plate
Heavi-Watt Wire
Hydrogen Generator
Jumbo Battery
Large Discharger
Large Power Transformer
Manual Generator
Natural Gas Generator
Peat Burner
Petroleum Generator
Power Bank Charger
Power Shutoff
Power Transformer
Smart Battery
Solar Panel
Steam Turbine
Switch
Wire
Wire Bridge
Wood Burner
see all buildings
