# Steam

Steam
(H
2
O) Steam is Water that has been heated into a scalding Gas.
Type
Unbreathable Gas
Chemical Formula
H
2
O
Condensation Point
99.35 °C
/
210.83 °F
Condenses into
Water
(SHC: 4.179)
Specific Heat Capacity
4.179
DTU
g
∘
C
/
2.32
DTU
g
∘
F
Thermal Conductivity
0.184
DTU
m
s
∘
C
/
0.1
DTU
m
s
∘
F
Light
Absorption Factor
10%
Radiation
Absorption Factor
8%
Molar Mass
18.01528
g
mol
Properties
Gas
,
Sterile Atmosphere
Code
elementId
Steam
localizationID
STRINGS.ELEMENTS.STEAM.NAME
Steam
is the
Gas
state of
Water
. It can be created by heating Water to
102.35 °C
/
216.23 °F
(vaporization point + 3 °C) or
Polluted Water
to
122.35 °C
/
252.23 °F
(vaporization point + 3 °C). Steam is denser than
Oxygen
or
Natural Gas
, but lighter than
Sour Gas
and
Chlorine
.
Production
Steam naturally comes out of the two types of
Geysers
, as either
110 °C
/
230 °F
or
500 °C
/
932 °F
.
Cool Steam Vents
slowly pours lukewarm steam at various rates. At least two uncovered Cool Steam Vents are guaranteed to spawn on each map.
Steam Vent erupts with the large amounts of superheated steam, and is harder to deal with, but can be used directly to power
Steam Turbine
.
Steam can be created by boiling
Water
,
Salt Water
,
Brine
or
Polluted Water
in hot environment such as
Volcanic Biome
and
Space Biome
.
However, Polluted Water produces
Dirt
when evaporated and Salt Water and brine produce
Salt
when evaporated.
Usage
Steam naturally cools down to
Water
, one of the important Resources in the game.
Steam of any temperature is used as fuel of
Steam Engine
for space missions.
Steam of any temperature is used in
Sauna
for
recreational
purposes.
Steam Turbine
can generate
Power
from Steam hotter than
125 °C
/
257 °F
. For this reason, the Steam generated by Cool Steam Vent can not be used without additional heating.
Steam can be an alternative for
Hydrogen
as
heat
transfer agent in environments above
100 °C
/
212 °F
since it has better conductivity and heat capacity.
Tips
Steam is an environmental danger and quickly scalds the
Duplicants
. Better to equip
Atmo Suits
before entering Steam atmosphere or working with
risky
water-cooled equipment.
Polluted Water
can be cleaned by boiling it into Steam, then condensing it. Directly cooling the Steam to condensation is difficult, as it will damage pipes if done with a
Thermo Regulator
, and
Wheezeworts
do not cool below condensation points and will become stifled by hot Steam. Instead, cooling another gas, such as
Hydrogen
, and using this to cool the Steam, either by bubbling, piping, or using a highly-conductive
tile
wall between them.
A
Liquid Tepidizer
can be used to generate Steam if water is dripped onto it (if submerged or in large amounts, the Tepidizer will limit itself before boiling the water).
Batteries
contained in an insulated room can also reach high temperatures. Alternatively, the bottom of the map contains large amount of very hot material, including
Magma
. Water pumped onto these hot materials will rapidly boil. However, the resulting Steam will often be extremely hot, making it harder to condense than other methods.
An easy way to generate Steam for
Steam Engine
is to build a Steam room in
Space Biome
. The top wall of the room shall be made of
Bunker Tile
and exposed to sky. The side and bottom wall could be made of normal tiles with good hardness and thermal conductivity. Pumping hot
Water
into this room, and the heat from accumulated
Regolith
on top ceiling will boil the Water into Steam. A
Gas Pump
made of
Steel
can pump the Steam out for Steam Engine.
Another way to generate Steam is to build a normal cooling loop with a Thermal Aquatuner and Radiant Pipes, but no Steam Turbine. Send the loop through a large body of liquid to reheat the coolant and keep the aqutuner running. The heat generated by the Thermal Aquatuner can create steam.
